INDEPENDENT USER-REQUESTED REVIEW OF C31, 2026-10-05

Decision: ACCEPT the exact scoped C31 theorem. The separate kernel replay passed.
Scientific novelty remains provisional. This review is
independent of the earlier proof author's review and does not rely on its verdict.

Declaration:
  OpenQ.Problems.AmortizationCollapseSuperchannelDivergences_148275.referenceStabilized_collapse
Exact type:
  OpenQ.Problems.AmortizationCollapseSuperchannelDivergences_148275.ReferenceStabilizedMainStatement

1. What was checked

I read PROGRESS.md, the previous human correction in USER_REVIEW.txt, the locked
definitions, the final assembly, and the critical supported-perspective, physical
contraction, tester-completion and realization steps. I compared the definitions
with the original published source and searched for earlier results.

The independent verify.py in this directory recomputed the import graph and
compiled all 43 OpenQ modules from their current sources to a new initially empty
fresh/ directory. All compilations exited zero. LEAN_PATH excluded the shared
OpenQ cache and every critic build directory. The separately written ProofAudit.lean
checked theorem metadata for literal target identity and no universe parameters,
elaborated an independently written expansion of the two outer optimization
domains, and printed the underlying physical and channel-cost definitions.

The theorem and five critical exports have exactly the standard axiom set
{propext, Classical.choice, Quot.sound}; no sorryAx appears. A source scan of all
43 modules, 9429 lines, found no proof placeholders, extra axioms, unsafe
declarations, or the scanned mechanisms for bypassing kernel checking. All 49
files in the problem's locked-file manifest match their recorded SHA-256 hashes.

Separate leanchecker replay of the 43 freshly compiled modules exited zero with
an empty diagnostic log. Its exit status, command and log hash are recorded in
kernel_replay.json, and result.json records success for every verification step.
Sources were hashed before compilation and confirmed unchanged after replay.

This run retained the installed Lean 4.34.1, Mathlib and Physlib binaries. It did
not rebuild or replay external packages. Mathlib's source revision is
d13f23b723b8a846827a245b89c10fc7d3f11612 and Physlib's is
44c66d54be78db4693be9f8f92bd3b5ad124ed6f. This trust boundary is disclosed in
environment.json and result.json. leanchecker uses the installed Lean kernel,
rather than a separately implemented proof verifier.

2. Correspondence with the intended mathematical question

The corrected locked target matches Hirche's Quantum Network Discrimination,
Definition 4.4, Eq. (33), and Definition 4.5, Eq. (39):
  https://quantum-journal.org/papers/q-2023-07-25-1064/pdf/

All Hilbert spaces are positive finite complex dimensions. Channel maps are
complex-linear, with independently defined complete positivity on every finite
amplification and ordinary trace preservation. Density matrices are PSD with
trace one. A PhysicalSuperchannel contains CPTP preprocessing and postprocessing
and its own arbitrary positive finite inaccessible memory. Each member of a pair
has independent realization data. The circuit model covers deterministic physical
superchannels by the established realization theorem of Chiribella, D'Ariano and
Perinotti, Theorem 1, Eq. (23): https://arxiv.org/pdf/0804.0180
That representation theorem is cited, not newly formalized by C31.

referenceRealization tensors both physical teeth with id_R and explicitly moves R
past the inaccessible memory before inserting the entire joint map AR -> BR.
The insertion is arbitrary CPTP, rather than being required to be N tensor id_R.
The outer r ranges over every positive natural number. Each inner amortized
channel divergence has its own independently bound positive external dimension s.
The state-based ordinary quantity is precisely Hirche Eq. (33).

The state and output-channel forms of the ordinary stabilized supremum also have
an independent mathematical reference-absorption argument: replace inserted R by
R tensor S and insert N tensor id_S, then reorder the tested state and output
indices. This reproduces each externally amplified channel test. The reverse
inclusion uses S of dimension one. This argument does not assume C31's collapse;
no new Lean reference-absorption theorem is asserted by this review.

geometricStateDivergence uses the actual matrix-range support relation, spectral
inverse square root vanishing on the kernel, real spectral powers, and base-two
logarithms. Unsupported pairs return +infinity. Its non-Hermitian fallback is
unused on the normalized physical states. Finite real witnesses specify the
entire input supremum, rather than selected state-test costs or bounds. Both
amortized definitions retain every finite-cost term without clipping negative
differences, and never subtract infinity from infinity.

The earlier C18 result concerns insertions restricted to A -> B and remains a
different, narrower theorem. C31 supplies the inserted-reference quantifier whose
absence invalidated C18 as a resolution of the intended source question.

3. Why intermediate regularity conditions do not weaken the final theorem

The final assembly quantifies every real 1 < alpha <= 2 without extra hypotheses.
Supported comb pairs are handled by the singular support inverse and an all-real
order transformer theorem. Orders below two use an integral representation with
the required integrability proved; the endpoint is treated separately.

Finite input cost supplies Choi support and the partial-trace moment bound through
admissible equal-input pure tests. No channel-collapse theorem is assumed as a
premise. The tester construction and marginal-slack completion bound all inserted
and external reference dimensions uniformly. Positive definite testers are
physically realized using one common input/output reference of dimension c*a*b.
The inserted channel is completed on the unused input subspace, so its trace
preservation holds globally. Linear mixing extends tester bounds to singular
testers. The proof derives a sufficient reference dimension; the target still
optimizes all positive finite dimensions.

For unsupported comb pairs, the realization produces an unsupported ordinary
output pair. Its value is +infinity. The ordinary-to-amortized lower bound uses
equal insertions with entire input cost zero, so the amortized value is also
+infinity. Thus support and invertibility conditions on intermediate lemmas are
discharged rather than attached to the universal conclusion.

4. Prior work and provenance

No earlier published proof of this exact reference-stabilized nested superchannel
equality was located. The live QIQCOP record still labels the geometric case
Unsolved, last edited 2026-09-25:
  https://qiqc-op.com/problem/op_1482756b02794495/
This is evidence about catalogue status, not a proof of novelty.

Fang and Fawzi's established channel Choi formula, geometric channel chain rule,
amortization collapse and transformer inequality are essential prior ingredients:
  https://arxiv.org/pdf/1909.05758
Their paper proves the ordinary-channel result. It does not state C31's nested
superchannel equality. The inspected works of Gour, Zambon, Das-Goswami-Pandey,
Fang-Gour-Wang, Fawzi-Kochanowski-Rouze-Van Himbeeck, and Khatri likewise supplied
no earlier statement of this exact result. literature.json records primary
sources, search families, distinctions and retrieval limitations. Direct arXiv
search-page retrieval failed, while individual papers and indexed searches worked.
Unpublished work, different terminology and incomplete indexing cannot be excluded.

The proof did already exist locally: C31 registers earlier unaccepted critic
scratch from e002-i01/e002-i02, ported into 16 StabilizedProof modules. Its final
wrapper applies StabilizedProofAlphaMain.referenceStabilizedMainStatement_holds.
The earlier reviewer disclosed authorship of that scratch. Registration is not
new proof authorship, and should not be described as an independently discovered
second proof. This review independently checks the current registered sources,
their theorem type, their interpretation and their fresh kernel replay.

C31 concerns Eq. (39), with Eq. (33) on the right. Hirche's larger fully amortized
quantity in Eq. (40), general multi-slot combs, and alpha=1 are outside this
statement. Accepting C31 does not resolve those separate questions or certify
priority in the literature.

5. Review decision

Accept C31 as a resolution of the locked corrected nested statement. All required
fresh source, exact-type, axiom and kernel checks passed. No earlier published
match was located, and no novelty certificate is claimed.

Record the decision using:
  lean-orch review op_1482756b02794495 --accept

The command was executed and exited zero. The running orchestrator reported:
  queued; the running loop applies it at its next safe point
The running loop then applied the request. A subsequent read of state.json
confirmed status "solved" and the hint "Human review accepted C31."
